README.md, before:

# Plojo

Note: uses [enigo](https://crates.io/crates/enigo) for computer control. Linux
users may need to install libxdo-dev.

## Todos

- BUG: control-up arrow broke again
- BUG: `H-L` + `H-L` + `AFPS` + `*` doesn't work properly
- BUG: `KPA*` + word doesn't check with orthography word list
- for stroke lookup, search also with first letter capitalized/lowercased
- add custom stroke/command to also reset `prev_stroke`
  - BUG: tab should clear something, because `KA*PD` doesn't work after it
    - `Hello` + `{tab}` + `hi` + `KA*PD` doesn't do anything
    - maybe add option to clear `prev_strokes`
- add stroke to toggle between space before and space after
- add support for multiple dictionaries that can have their order changed

- mouse control
- upper/lower casing entire words
- allow comments to be added to the dictionary
- something that can suggest briefs based on usage
  - calculate stroke speed and average strokes per word
  - find which strokes happen quickly one after the other (for brief suggestion)

### Optimization
- I probably shouldn't worry about performance because it is already really fast
- use a bloom filter to prevent need to lookup a long stroke
  - instead of looking up 10, 9, 8, ... 1 strokes joined together
  - 10..n (where n is around 4) could be looked up in a bloom filter
    - could be done in parallel as well
- store prev_strokes in a VecDeque instead of a Vec
  - only diff the last 15 or something strokes instead of all the strokes
- find out what text was deleted to allow for delete by word optimization
- limit number of strokes sent to `translate_strokes`
- possibly optimize hashmap lookup by turning steno keys into a u32
- initialize vecs and hashmaps with capacity to improve performance

### Cleanup
- look for plojo config folder in multiple places (instead of just `~/.plojo`)
- write dictionary parsing as a serde deserializer
- check for stroke validity with a regex and warn if a stoke is invalid
- refactor machine to use more traits
- use macros for raw stokes parsing
- implement feature flag for serde deserializing in plojo_core
- consolidate `Lit` and `Attached` (and maybe even `Glued`)

### Plover compatible
- write a script to convert plover shortcut keys to plojo keys
- ignore dictionary unknown special actions
- escape sequences (especially for brackets) in dictionary
- add orthography rules aliases
- potential bug: uppercase the next word (without specifying space) and then
- consider changing commands format back to one that is plover compatible
- make text_after actions more convenient to type
- add config to customize undo strokes

### Documentation
- write somewhere about how commands are dispatched without modifying any text
  - even if a correction is required, it will not press any backspaces
  - command will only be dispatched if it has been newly added
- document the keys available for pressing and how raw key codes are allowed
- grep for all the NOTEs and document them
- note that numbers in a stroke must have a dash where necessary
  - if 0/5 not present and there are digits 6-9
- note that translations with only numbers will be interpreted as glued
- document how undo removes all strokes that only have text actions and commands
  - also removes text (attached, glued) that is empty
- keyboard shortcuts must use the "raw" version (eg: `[`/`]` instead of `{`/`}`)
- capitalize prev will capitalize the previous word that appears on screen
  - for translations with multiple words, the last word will be capitalized
  - if space prev is suppressed, the whole thing will be capitalized
  - for something like `©ab`, the `a` will be capitalized: `©Ab`
- `suppress_space_before` is the same as a `{^}` before command in Plover

Commit message:

clean up error messages and modifier handling
Add "tags" to warnings and clean up panic messages. Remove the special
handling for control + arrow keys because the latest MacOS update broke
it. It's no longer possibly to dispatch arrow key + some modifiers
(including control).

README.md, after:

# Plojo

Note: uses [enigo](https://crates.io/crates/enigo) for computer control. Linux
users may need to install libxdo-dev.

## Todos

- BUG: control-up arrow broke again
- BUG: `KPA*` + word doesn't check with orthography word list
- handle number strokes for keyboard input
- for stroke lookup, search also with first letter capitalized/lowercased
- add custom stroke/command to also reset `prev_stroke`
  - BUG: tab should clear something, because `KA*PD` doesn't work after it
    - `Hello` + `{tab}` + `hi` + `KA*PD` doesn't do anything
    - maybe add option to clear `prev_strokes`
- add stroke to toggle between space before and space after
- add support for multiple dictionaries that can have their order changed

- mouse control
- upper/lower casing entire words
- allow comments to be added to the dictionary
- something that can suggest briefs based on usage
  - calculate stroke speed and average strokes per word
  - find which strokes happen quickly one after the other (for brief suggestion)
- translation mode for verbatim strokes for brief creation

### Optimization
- I probably shouldn't worry about performance because it is already really fast
- use a bloom filter to prevent need to lookup a long stroke
  - instead of looking up 10, 9, 8, ... 1 strokes joined together
  - 10..n (where n is around 4) could be looked up in a bloom filter
    - could be done in parallel as well
- store prev_strokes in a VecDeque instead of a Vec
  - only diff the last 15 or something strokes instead of all the strokes
- find out what text was deleted to allow for delete by word optimization
- limit number of strokes sent to `translate_strokes`
- possibly optimize hashmap lookup by turning steno keys into a u32
- initialize vecs and hashmaps with capacity to improve performance

### Cleanup
- look for plojo config folder in multiple places (instead of just `~/.plojo`)
- write dictionary parsing as a serde deserializer
- check for stroke validity with a regex and warn if a stoke is invalid
- refactor machine to use more traits
- use macros for raw stokes parsing
- implement feature flag for serde deserializing in plojo_core
- consolidate `Lit` and `Attached` (and maybe even `Glued`)

### Plover compatible
- write a script to convert plover shortcut keys to plojo keys
- ignore dictionary unknown special actions
- escape sequences (especially for brackets) in dictionary
- add orthography rules aliases
- potential bug: uppercase the next word (without specifying space) and then
- consider changing commands format back to one that is plover compatible
- make text_after actions more convenient to type
- add config to customize undo strokes
- some strokes (like `O-RBGS`) have a dash when it doesn't need a dash
- should be usable as a drop-in replacement for Plover

### Documentation
- write somewhere about how commands are dispatched without modifying any text
  - even if a correction is required, it will not press any backspaces
  - command will only be dispatched if it has been newly added
- document the keys available for pressing and how raw key codes are allowed
- grep for all the NOTEs and document them
- note that numbers in a stroke must have a dash where necessary
  - if 0/5 not present and there are digits 6-9
- note that translations with only numbers will be interpreted as glued
- document how undo removes all strokes that only have text actions and commands
  - also removes text (attached, glued) that is empty
- keyboard shortcuts must use the "raw" version (eg: `[`/`]` instead of `{`/`}`)
- capitalize prev will capitalize the previous word that appears on screen
  - for translations with multiple words, the last word will be capitalized
  - if space prev is suppressed, the whole thing will be capitalized
  - for something like `©ab`, the `a` will be capitalized: `©Ab`
- `suppress_space_before` is the same as a `{^}` before command in Plover
- retrospective add space will add a space in the stroke buffer
  - this means that undo will "undo" the space stroke that was added
  - retrospective add space itself cannot be undone either
